Add Page for Data Module (#613)
PennyLaneAI/qml: datasets_qchem.rst

.. raw:: html

    <style>
        h1 {
            text-align: center;
        }
    </style>

> Quantum Chemistry Datasets
> ===========================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quantum Chemistry Datasets
==========================
```

> One of the most promising directions for current research in quantum algorithms is quantum chemistry, a field of critical importance, as it allows one to inquire about the quantum properties of matter. To further foster this momentum in the scientific community, we share our quantum chemistry dataset, which contains data related to some popularly examined molecular systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most promising directions for current research in quantum algorithms is quantum chemistry, a field of critical importance, as it allows one to inquire about the quantum properties of matter.

Explore our available quantum chemistry datasets below, providing data related to some popularly examined molecular systems.
```

Molecules
~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /_static/datasets/bondlength.jpeg
    :align: right
    :width: 45%
    :target: javascript:void(0);

Through this dataset, it is possible to access electronic structure data for the 42 different geometries of the following molecules:

* Linear hydrogen chains - H\ :sub:`2`, H\ :sub:`4`, H\ :sub:`6`, H\ :sub:`8`.
* Metallic and non-metallic hydrides - LiH, BeH\ :sub:`2`, BH\ :sub:`3`, CH\ :sub:`4`, NH\ :sub:`3`, H\ :sub:`2`\ O, HF.
* Charged species - HeH\ :sup:`+`, H\ :sub:`3`\ :sup:`+`, OH\ :sup:`-`.

> For the smaller molecules such as H\ :sub:`2`, HeH\ :sup:`+`, and H\ :sub:`3`\ :sup:`+`, data has been obtained for both minimal basis-set `STO-3G` and the split-valence double-zeta basis set `6-31G`. For the remaining molecules, available data is for the former basis-set only. Moreover, for each molecule, the geometry is defined by equidistantly varying bond lengths around their central atom between :math:`[0.5 - 2.5]` Angstroms in 41 steps. In addition to these, we also include data for the optimal ground-state geometry of each molecule. 

Reviewer: @obliviateandsurrender this is great, but it is hard to determine from these paragraphs:

- the strings you would pass in as a user to load each dataset
- an overview of the properties of each molecule.

Reviewer: I see two options:

- provide a code block underneath this paragraph showing how to programmatically display this in your terminal/notebook, or

- provide a table underneath this paragraph listing the name and properties for each molecule.

I think I prefer the second option (a table).

Data Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> For each of the molecules mentioned above, users will be able to extract the following characteristics for a geometry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each of the molecules mentioned above, the following geometry characteristics can be extracted:
```

Here, just rewording this into the passive voice (to remove 'user').

> #. **Molecular Data**

Reviewer: I find it odd that these are numbered. Perhaps these should be subsubsection headings?

Or even subsection headings to appear in the TOC?

I also suggest having 1-2 sentence beneath each to describe what they mean.

    .. table::

>         :widths: auto 

Reviewer: You can replace this with 

```rest
.. rst-class:: docstable
```

for a PL-themed table :)

        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>         | `molecule`                 | PennyLane Molecule object                                                         |

Reviewer: all of these should have double backticks.

>         | `molecule`                 | PennyLane Molecule object                                                         |

Reviewer: I strongly suggest having `type` information here if possible

        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
        | `hf_state`                 | Hartree-Fock state of the molecule                                                |
        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+    
        | `fci_energy`               | Classical energy of the molecule from exact diagonalization.                      |
        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>         | `fci_spectrum`             | First few eigenvalues obtained from exact diagonalization.                        |

Reviewer: How many?

        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

#. **Hamiltonian Data**
    .. table::
        :widths: auto 
        
        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>         | `hamiltonian`              | PennyLane Hamiltonian in string format                                            |

Reviewer: What does string format mean here?

Author: It's actually in a dictionary format with Pauli words as `keys` and their coefficients as `values`. This is done to compress them. We will change them to PennyLane Hamiltonian on load internally.

        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>         | `meas_groupings`           | Measurement groupings for the Hamiltonian                                         |

Reviewer: What grouping method was used?

Author: It was `qwc`, I will add that in the updated table docs.

        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>         | `wire_map`                 | Wire map for the Hamiltonian                                                      |

Reviewer: What does this mean?

#. **Auxiliary Observables**
    .. table::
        :widths: auto

        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
        | `dipole_op`                | Dipole moment operators                                                           |
        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
        | `number_op`                | Number operator                                                                   |
        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
        | `spin2_op`                 | Total spin operator                                                               |
        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
        | `spinz_op`                 | Spin projection operator                                                          |
        +----------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> #. **Tapering Data**

Reviewer: If these correspond to specific PL functions/workflows, I would include them here in the 1-2 sentence introductions (or even a 1-2 line code example if it makes sense?)

>>> data = qml.data.load("qchem", molname="H2", basis="STO-3G", bondlength=1.1)[0]
>>> print(data)
<pennylane.data.dataset.Dataset object at 0x7f14e4369640>

Here, the positional argument ``"qchem"`` denotes that we are loading a chemistry dataset,
while the keyword arguments ``molname``, ``basis``, and ``bondlength`` specify the requested dataset.
The possible values for these keyword arguments are included in the table below. For more information on using PennyLane functions
please see the `PennyLane Documentation <https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/latest/introduction/data.html>`_.

.. raw:: html

     <style>
        .docstable tr.row-even th, .docstable tr.row-even td {
            text-align: center;
        }
        .docstable tr.row-odd th, .docstable tr.row-odd td {
            text-align: center;
        }
    </style>
    <div class="d-flex justify-content-center">

.. rst-class:: docstable
    :widths: auto
    :align: center

    +------------------------------+-------------------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>     | **Molecule**                 | **Basis set(s)**                    | **#Qubits**  | **Bond length (Å), Bond angle (°)**                                       | **Optimal geometry (Å, °)**                                                |

Author: It looks very weird, would prefer to keep it this way.

    +==============================+=====================================+==============+===========================================================================+============================================================================+

>     | H\ :math:`_2`                | | STO\ :math:`-`\3G /               | 4 / 8        | H\ :math:`_A-`\ H\ :math:`_B` :math:`\in\ [0.5, 2.1]`                     | H\ :math:`_A-`\ H\ :math:`_B = 0.742`                                      |

Reviewer 2: I meant for the basis sets, just the normal hyphen is fine: STO-3G. The current symbol (looks like a dash symbol) is too long and looks like a bond length.

>     | H\ :math:`_2`                | | STO\ :math:`-`\3G /               | 4 / 8        | H\ :math:`_A-`\ H\ :math:`_B` :math:`\in\ [0.5, 2.1]`                     | H\ :math:`_A-`\ H\ :math:`_B = 0.742`                                      |

Author: Yeah, I have updated it now. The sad emoji was for updating the column length across the table. 😆

    | H\ :math:`_3`\ O\ :math:`^+` | STO\ :math:`-`\3G                   | 18           | | [H\ :math:`-`\ O]\ :math:`^+` :math:`\in\ [0.5, 2.1]`                   | | [H\ :math:`-`\ O]\ :math:`^+ = 2.5`                                      |
    |                              |                                     |              | | [H\ :math:`_A`\ :math:`-`\ O\ :math:`-`\ H\ :math:`_B]^+=111.3^{\circ}` | | [H\ :math:`_A`\ :math:`-`\ O\ :math:`-`\ H\ :math:`_B]^+=111.3^{\circ}`  |
    +------------------------------+-------------------------------------+--------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Data features
-------------

For each of the molecules mentioned above, the following characteristics can be extracted for each geometry:

Molecular data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Information regarding the molecule, including its complete classical description and the Hartree Fock state.

.. rst-class:: docstable
    :widths: auto 

> 

Reviewer 2: These table need headers. Something like:

Name  |  Type

    +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | ``sparse_hamiltonian``     |  ``scipy.sparse.csr_array``                                                        | Sparse matrix representation of a Hamiltonian in the computational basis.         |
    +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | ``meas_groupings``         | list[list[list[\ :class:`~.pennylane.operation.Operator`]], list[``tensor_like``]] | List of grouped qubit-wise commuting Hamiltonian terms.                           |
    +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>     | ``fci_energy``             | ``float``                                                                          | Classical energy of the molecule obtained from exact diagonalization.             |

Reviewer 2: Ground state energy (Classical could be confusing).

    +----------------------------+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | ``tapered_num_op``         | :class:`~.pennylane.Hamiltonian` | Tapered number operator                                                           |
    +----------------------------+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | ``tapered_spin2_op``       | :class:`~.pennylane.Hamiltonian` | Tapered total spin operator                                                       |
    +----------------------------+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | ``tapered_spinz_op``       | :class:`~.pennylane.Hamiltonian` | Tapered spin projection operator                                                  |
    +----------------------------+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

VQE data
~~~~~~~~

> Variational data obtained by using the :class:`~.pennylane.AdaptiveOptimizer` to minimize ground state energy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Variational data obtained by using :class:`~.pennylane.AdaptiveOptimizer` to minimize ground state energy.
```

Data features
-------------

For each of the molecules mentioned above, the following characteristics can be extracted for each geometry:

Molecular data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Information regarding the molecule, including its complete classical description and the Hartree Fock state.

.. rst-class:: docstable
    :widths: auto 

    +----------------------------+--------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | **Name**                   | **Type**                       | **Description**                                                                   | 
    +============================+================================+===================================================================================+
    | ``molecule``               |  :class:`~.pennylane.Molecule` | PennyLane Molecule object containing description for the system and basis set     |
    +----------------------------+--------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>     | ``hf_state``               |  ``numpy.array``               | Hartree-Fock state of the chemical system represented by a binary vector          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    | ``hf_state``               |  ``numpy.ndarray``               | Hartree-Fock state of the chemical system represented by a binary vector          |
```

    +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | ``meas_groupings``         | list[list[list[\ :class:`~.pennylane.operation.Operator`]], list[``tensor_like``]] | List of grouped qubit-wise commuting Hamiltonian terms                            |
    +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | ``fci_energy``             | ``float``                                                                          | Ground state energy of the molecule obtained from exact diagonalization           |
    +----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>     | ``fci_spectrum``           | ``numpy.array``                                                                    | First :math:`2\times`\ #qubits eigenvalues obtained from exact diagonalization    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    | ``fci_spectrum``           | ``numpy.ndarray``                                                                    | First :math:`2\times`\ #qubits eigenvalues obtained from exact diagonalization    |
```

    +----------------------------+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Tapered observables data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tapered observables and Hartree-Fock state based on the on :math:`Z_2` symmetries of the molecular Hamiltonian. 

.. rst-class:: docstable
    :widths: auto

    +----------------------------+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | **Name**                   | **Type**                         | **Description**                                                                   | 
    +============================+==================================+===================================================================================+
    | ``tapered_hamiltonian``    | :class:`~.pennylane.Hamiltonian` | Tapered Hamiltonian                                                               |
    +----------------------------+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>     | ``tapered_hf_state``       | ``numpy.array``                  | Tapered Hartree-Fock state of the molecule                                        |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    | ``tapered_hf_state``       | ``numpy.ndarray``                  | Tapered Hartree-Fock state of the molecule                                        |
```

Variational data obtained by using :class:`~.pennylane.AdaptiveOptimizer` to minimize ground state energy.

.. rst-class:: docstable
    :widths: auto

    +----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | **Name**                   | **Type**                                         | **Description**                                                                                                         | 
    +============================+==================================================+=========================================================================================================================+
    | ``vqe_gates``              | list[\ :class:`~.pennylane.operation.Operation`] | :class:`~.pennylane.SingleExcitation` and :class:`~.pennylane.DoubleExcitation` gates for the optimized circuit         |
    +----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

>     | ``vqe_params``             | ``numpy.array``                                  | Optimal parameters for the gates that prepares ground state                                                             |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    | ``vqe_params``             | ``numpy.ndarray``                                  | Optimal parameters for the gates that prepares ground state                                                             |
```
